`rustup install`install rust toolchain
`rustup update`update rust toolchain
## Maintain a Rust Project

`search`

Search for crates

`install`

Install a Rust binary

`install CREATENAME`

Install a named crate, see search above

`fetch --list`

Lists installed crates

`install --list`

Lists installed crates

## Build a Rust Project

`build`

Build a Rust project

`build -j JOBS`

Build a Rust project in parallel with mutiple jobs

`run`

Executes benchmark of project, requires tests

`bench`

Executes benchmark of project, requires tests

`check`

Analyze the current project and report possible errors, but does not build object files

`test`

Executes project tests, requires tests

`doc`

Builds projects documentation, requires inlines documentation in source files

`clean`

Clean out the build, by removing the target/ directory


## Start a Rust Project

`new --bin APPLICATIONNAME`

Create new application/executable based project

`new --lib LIBRARYNAME`

Create new library based project, this is actually the default and  `--lib`  can be omitted

`init --bin`

Initialize a new application/executable in current directory

`init --lib`

Initialize a library in current directory

## Environment Variables

`CARGO_HOME`

Cargo maintains a local cache of the registry index and of git checkouts of crates. By default these are stored under  `$HOME/.cargo`, this variable overrides the location of this directory. Once a crate is cached it will not removed by the clean command

`CARGO_TARGET_DIR`

Location of where to place generated artifacts, relative to the current working directory

`RUSTC`

Instead of running rustc, Cargo will execute specified compiler instead

`RUSTC_WRAPPER`

Instead of running rustc, Cargo will execute specified wrapper instead, passing as its commandline arguments the rustc invocation, with the first argument being rustc

`RUSTDOC`

Instead of running rustdoc, Cargo will execute specified rustdoc instance

`RUSTDOCFLAGS`

A space-separated list of custom flags to pass to rustdoc invocations that Cargo performs. In contrast to cargo rustdoc, this is useful for passing a flag to all rustdoc instances

`RUSTFLAGS`

A space-separated list of custom flags to pass to compiler invocations that Cargo performs. In contrast to cargo rustc, this is useful for passing a flag to all compiler instances

`CARGO_INCREMENTAL`

If set to 1 then Cargo will force incremental compilation to be enabled for the current compilation, and when set to 0 it will force disabling it. If this env var is not present then Cargo defaults will be used

`CARGO_CACHE_RUSTC_INFO`

If set to 0 then Cargo will not attempt to cache compiler version information
------------------------

    cargo new <project_name>
    
    cargo build
    
    cargo run

`cargo check` 

Quickly checks your code to make sure it compiles without producing an executable.

`cargo clean` 

Removes the `target` directory generated by Cargo.

`cargo add <crate_name>` 

Adds a new dependency to your `Cargo.toml` file.



`cargo update` 

Updates dependencies listed in `Cargo.toml` to the latest versions.

`cargo tree` 

Displays a tree of dependencies for your project.


`cargo metadata` 

Outputs information about the current project's dependencies.

`cargo read-manifest` 

Displays the `Cargo.toml` manifest in JSON format.

----------------
### Run benchmarks


`cargo bench` 

Runs the benchmarks.

### Generate documentation



`cargo doc --open` 

Generates the documentation and opens it in the browser.

### Run Clippy (Linting)


`cargo clippy` 

Runs Clippy, a collection of lints to catch common mistakes and improve your Rust code.

### Run Rustfmt (Formatting)


`cargo fmt` 

Formats your code according to Rust's style guidelines.

------------


### Create a workspace

Add this to the root `Cargo.toml`:

`[workspace]
members = ["member1", "member2"]` 

Defines a workspace in `Cargo.toml`.

### Add a member to the workspace


`cargo new member_name`



`cargo build --target <target_triple>` 

Builds the project for the specified target.

`cargo build --release` 

Builds the project with optimizations.



-------------------
cargo --version

`--version`

Shows version information, hash and date, see also the introduction above

`--list`

Lists all installed and available commands

`--verbose`

Enable verbose output. Shorthand -v and -vv for more (very) verbose output

`--quiet`

Disable output on STDOUT

`--color WHEN`

Enable colours, auto, always or never

`--help`

Shows help message

`--locked`

Require Cargo.lock is up to date

`--frozen`

Require Cargo.lock and cache are up to date is up to date

`-Z FLAG`

Unstable (nightly-only) flags to Cargo, see "cargo -Z help" for details for further information on unstable flags

`--explain CODE`

Executes  `rustc --explain CODE`


---------
